everybody and welcome to another episode
of AMA I'm your host Tom bill you and
we're gonna be taking your questions so
be sure to drop those bad boys in
and by the way forgive us if Wicky goes
bonkers because we've got a bunch of
family in the house today so she has not
locked up per usual
so madness may ensue all right first
question let's dive right into this bad
boy this is from Ashraf Muhammad who
definitely is in contention for coolest
name in a very long time hi Tom you
mentioned in your episode with crystal
Dilworth that you used to have you used
to have a bad case of anxiety I'm
someone who suffers from generalized
anxiety and social anxiety it's
something that's stopping me from making
the life-changing transition into
fulfillment what was what was it that
you personally had to do to rid yourself
of of it and become the person that you
are so first I will say that I I haven't
rid myself of anxiety that is something
that I still struggle with on a pretty
much daily basis but there are things
that you can do to keep it in check so
I'm gonna give you my four-step magic
process to curing your anxiety I can
smell the title of this episode coming
all right number one for me and this was
a huge breakthrough is to understand the
biology of what's happening once I
really began to understand the
difference between the sympathetic
nervous system and the parasympathetic
nervous system that was huge for me so
the sympathetic nervous system is the
fight flight or freeze response and this
is what you're clicking over into when
your anxiety begins to build and the
problem that I have with anxiety is the
physiological side of it so anxiety when
it's like nervousness I actually don't
mind that much if it's not affecting me
like shortness of breath really rapid
heart rate if it's just the butterflies
in my stomach that's not a big deal but
I found that it was escalating beyond
that and that it was I got shallow
breathing rapid heart rate and most
terrifyingly the blood is actually
leaving the prefrontal cortex and so
you're getting into a position where
your higher-level cognition is actually
being shut down because it doesn't have
blood flow and it's going to the more
primitive parts of your brain which are
in charge of the fight flight or freeze
response so understanding that and
understanding that the blood was
actually leaving the parts of my brain
that were respond
before the higher-level cognition made
me begin to understand why in those
moments I was performing so poorly and
then I began to visualize that what I
was trying to do was get myself into a
calm state where the blood could
actually go back to the places that I
needed it so that my higher-level
ability to reason would kick back in so
there was something about that that was
really really meaningful to me so that
brings us to step two which is the first
thing that I started to do to be able to
consciously control that was meditate so
in meditating what you're learning to do
at least for me and I don't consider
myself a meditation expert by any means
but this was one of the huge ones for me
in meditating was learning to breathe
from my diaphragm now breathing from you
- I literally just did it breathing from
your diaphragm instead of from your
chest right so most people breathe like
this and it's all in your upper chest
you're not getting a very deep breath a
and B there's something in breathing
from your diaphragm that triggers your
parasympathetic nervous system the
parasympathetic nervous system is the
opposite to the sympathetic nervous
system which is fight flight or freeze
parasympathetic is rest and digest
so in meditating and learning to breathe
from your diaphragm in learning to
consciously calm yourself down meaning
you're lowering your heart rate you're
breathing much more deeply from the
diaphragm getting the blood reallocated
to the parts of the brain that are
actually useful that meditating was my
first step into that where I realize
whoa even even one breath from my
diaphragm had a really big impact and so
I realized no matter how stressed out I
am no matter how much I'm freaking out
about something it becomes merely a
question of duration of diaphragm
breathing or meditative breathing for me
to get calm again
and so the hard part for me was
psychologically being willing to do that
when I was in like a business meeting or
something you want to know what the hell
you're doing why you're breathing so
strangely but nonetheless it really
helped calm me down and if you see me
before I walk onstage
always and forever every single time
I've ever done it you can see me doing
meditative breathing as they're doing
the intros for me so learning how to do
that is really really critical and that
brings me to the third thing which is to
this under pressure going from the
sympathetic nervous system to the
parasympathetic nervous system so once I
could visualize it and then I learned to
meditate so that I could consciously
slow myself down I needed to be able to
do that in high-pressure situations one
of the things was in business that was
often where I found that my anxiety was
kicking up there were high stakes you
know you're in a meeting where if you're
able to convince people to do something
it has a significant impact on the
company and if you're not then it has a
negative impact on the company so using
those times in business to practice that
became very very useful for me and
that's where I began to develop this
notion that all of life is but practice
there is no performance and that was
just a mental decision that I made no
one thing I wasn't going to allow it to
be performance I was going to always
ensure that I fued it as practice and
then the other thing that I've used is
video games so first person shooters
tend to put you in very stressful
situations where it feels like they're
stakes but there's really no stakes and
it doesn't matter if you're breathing
funny to calm yourself down and also in
that I realize that there's another part
of calming yourself down which is to be
aware that everything is escalating and
that it's spiking really fast which is
one of the ways that anxiety bites you
in the ass is it spikes really quickly
and you don't have a chance to like use
your meditative practices and everything
to calm yourself down so I found that
same thing was happening to me in
first-person shooter so it gave me a
chance to practice over and over and
over that as I felt that initial spike
that I would even mentally so not just
physiologically with the diaphragm
breathing that even mentally I would say
slow down which was a big part of it
it's it's the notion of slowing down not
letting my brain ramp up not letting my
heart rate ramp up not letting my
breathing get faster like to literally
just in that moment everything from my
posture relaxing my posture you know
you're making these crazy facial
expressions and all this stuff feeds
into this loop so relaxing my face
relaxing my posture and understanding
that I will actually play better if I
stay calm I don't focus on like speed of
movement that I just relax into it and
that keeps you from slipping into the
sympathetic nervous system and then the
fourth thing is get really good at the
thing that you care about that's causing
your anxiety and a lot of anxiety is
that fear it's you're rehearsing a
future
that hasn't happened right so you're
panicking that something bad is gonna
happen that you're gonna underperform
whatever and so that begins this
suicidal anxiety loop and some of that
not all of that but some of that is
borne of the fact that you're not
confident in your skill set yet so to
give you an idea when I used to do lives
this was back in the periscope days I
would have
I'm not joking like 7 to 15 people show
up to alive and I was in an out-and-out
panic and because I wasn't confident in
my ability to do this and so doing it
over and over and over and over you just
start getting confident and that
confidence and that exposure to it
immersion therapy if you will doing it
over and over with the mentality of
practicing knowing how to die from
breathe all of that you just literally
practice going through that and getting
good at it and that feeds into your
confidence your confidence and feeds
back into the loop that cancels out the
anxiety so there it is those are my four
steps to curing your anxiety curing is a
bit of a cheek because honestly I still
deal with it but I feel like I deal with
it
way more effectively than I used to so
hopefully that benefits you guys as much
as it's been amazing and utterly
transformative for me alright next
question is from Charlie Mason what book
site or person will help me learn about
the microbiome that is a gigantic
question so the microbiome is absurdly
complicated but an amazing follow-up
question to the first question about
anxiety because I believe that the
microbiome plays a massive role in
anxiety and depression I think that's
going to come out more and more and more
but you'll be able to see people talking
about that even if you read the books
that already out now I would start with
the human super organism and I would
also start with the gut mind connection
that's by dr. Emerich Myer and we just
had him on a new show that we're doing
called health theory which by the way
check that out I'm super curious to see
how this audience responds to that I
have a big fear maybe not quite the
right word but I have a reason to
believe that we're gonna have to
separate it and put it on its own
channel so I'll be announcing exactly
where we put that show in the future but
we started shooting a show called health
theory and dr. Emmer and mayor Meyer
Meyer
interesting so this is Lisa's obsession
so yeah hit a thumbs up if you guys want
to see health Theory drop into the
comments I'm super curious I'd really
like to know how many people would like
to see it on this channel because
there's a saying called view velocity
that YouTube cares a lot about and if we
don't have view velocity then it
actually damages the channel which is
why we think we have to move it to a
separate channel so anyway but let us
know if you'd like to see it that would
be my fantasies since I really believe
to pull people out of the matrix then we
have to address the microbiome what's up
yeah 20-18 cool all right so those are
the those are the two books I would
start with check out Rob wolf his
podcast it comes up a lot it's not the
primary focus of the show but they
talked about it a lot his book wired to
eat is also great again it's not
entirely focused on that but it comes up
a lot
SoDo Suri will get you started be a nice
primer you'd have a pretty good idea of
where to go from there so alright next
question is from a Katy TK from Facebook
hi Tom how do I stop planning my entire
life why would you want to I'm
constantly thinking about the future and
setting alarms to remind me of things
how can I start living in the now and
not stressing about my future ooh God
you and I have a conflict of values so I
actually believe that that obsessive
planning isn't the problem there's
something else in your system that is
creating an issue out of that so if
you're getting into an anxiety loop
where the planning becomes fretting and
worrying and not planning but you used a
very specific word planning for the
future I think is amazing and if you're
mapping out the steps you need to take
in order to achieve your goals I think
that's what everyone should do and I
highly encourage more people to start
because people do that they don't have a
specific goal they don't put a specific
plan in order to achieve it now if
planning is you cheating and it's really
just you worrying about the future and
obsessively looping over how things
could go wrong then I get that that's
not going to be very useful but the
notion of the eternal now at least as
Eckhart Tolle talks about it is all
right this is the only moment that you
have so learning to enjoy this moment is
utterly critical but I will tell you a
key component for me to enjoying this
moment is knowing that I'm working
towards
very specific so I'm a huge believer
that you need to enjoy the struggle
because the struggle is the only thing
that's guaranteed so whatever it is
you're fighting for you need to really
believe in that needs to be very
important to you it needs to matter it
needs to give you a sense of purpose and
significance and in fighting for it in
doing it and practicing it and getting
better in this moment that needs to be
something that you love and is exciting
for you but if you have all of that then
constantly planning for the future I
think is a great thing if you don't have
all of that and again it's just worrying
or you're fighting for something that
you don't really care about and it
doesn't light you on fire and it's not
exciting then that's the problem you
don't have a compelling future that
you're planning towards and I would say
get that compelling future rather than
stop planning okay next question is from
Josh Parker this is from Facebook
what are your 2018 goals for managing
time any new or different from 2017
well now I'll just invite you into my
thought process I don't have the
solution to this problem yet but I am
very distressed by how much of my time
is pre accounted for so and it's not
that this is what really freaks me out
when I analyze each individual thing
they're all strong magic it's stuff that
I want to be doing that I think really
feeds into the mission but there's
something about having the time to think
that's really really important now the
reason that this has really been on my
mind recently and it's really bothering
me I've been in a super weird sleep
cycle where I've been waking up in the
middle of the night with less than four
hours sleep which for me if I get less
than five hours sleep then I go back to
sleep because I will be a cognitive mess
and the day feels like a lost day so I
would rather lose my early morning time
which is like my precious precious time
then lose the entire day
but yeah it's throwing me into this
super weird cycle so I don't have what I
normally have is like four to seven
hours of just like alone time where I
can think it's nothing scheduled and I
can meditate think it ate read important
things like all of that and it gives me
a deep sense of calm and peace and I
know that I'm doing the things that I
need to do so I've had so much time to
really just free think about it and
recently for a couple weeks now it's
been driving me nuts I don't have that
time and so my day gets away from me and
then it's just all pre planned out so
Warren Buffett talks about this that you
need to have he says and I won't give
him this much but he said that you need
to have more unscheduled time than you
have scheduled time so the just had that
hasn't worked for me but I like to have
close to 50/50 and if I can have more
that would be amazing
so that's that's what I'm thinking about
otherwise my time management is so like
I'm so ruthless about it that I don't
necessarily have a new system that I'm
trying to bring into place and for
anybody that doesn't already know my
system the key is just to keep it short
I've talked a lot about this the key is
the important things list that you have
a list of the important things you
should be doing I don't check email
those two things important things list
which I obsessively go through it's not
about thinking it's about action and
then not checking email so other people
aren't dictating my schedule and I'm not
in sort of a social media ask feedback
loop of like just on to the next one on
to the next one on to the next one right
so you want to make sure that you're
doing the most important things you need
to be doing to make your goals come true
and the likelihood that someone has
emailed you those in the exact order
that you need to address them is exactly
zero so I tell people to feel a deep
deep sense of shame every time you're
checking your email because it means
that you believe that someone on the
outside knows better what you should be
doing for your business than you now I
get it there's certain things that are
gonna come into your email that are
important and are a key part of what
you're trying to move forward I
understand that but to give you an idea
that's true for me as well right as much
as for the next person and I even with
my assistant going through my email I
respond to less than it's less than
three emails a day that is for sure
sometimes it's less than three emails a
week so I'm telling you it can be done
that was true for me even when I was a
quest so and yeah I mean that was a
billion-dollar business I mean it's just
like you can do it it is a discipline it
is something you either value in your
life or you don't so train yourself to
not do that all right
next oh that's so not what I hoped would
happen I never leave the lid up dude I
never leave the lid off and the irony is
today because Brady is sick I didn't and
I knew that I'm touching all these
things at Brady's touched I was like
I'll just leave the lid off and of
the one time I knock it over so there we
have it boys and girls
all right the next question is from
kiuchi Mori Sato this is from YouTube
can you please tell us how to cope with
depression if we have it can we ever
truly be successful anxiety is
debilitating yes but how does one
successfully conquer depression alright
so this is a huge question first of all
I've never been clinically depressed so
I'll say that I'm probably not the ideal
person to answer this question but in
array dahlia principles kind of way let
me walk you through my thinking and if
you think my rationale is strong then go
on it so here's how I think about
depression
it is a neurochemical wiring problem so
you have a real issue that you have to
address that's either chemical imbalance
or you've just over time wired something
in your mind that you're gonna have to
build something new to allow that to
then break down so the way that that
works is a process in your brain called
myelination so neurons that fire
together wire together now I think of
them as networks so you've got these
networks and let's say one of these
networks is anxiety or one of these
networks is depression or one is joy
when it's happiness one is gratitude
whatever you spend your time really
focusing on that network is going to get
wired and you're going to very easily
slip into that now that is not
discounting just like natural brain
abnormalities that may lead to somebody
having a hereditary like setting for
depression right from the jump but I
think that even if you have that what
you'll find is as you go through the
treatment process one of the things that
they're gonna do is teach you to
leverage those other networks and I've
heard this said by people that have
struggled with clinical depression so
one if you're clinically depressed work
with a professional - don't be afraid to
medicate that may be exactly what you
need to balance out the neuro chemistry
and then three focus on those networks
and strengthening them so if you know
that you spend a lot of time with
depressive thoughts you need to
immediately stop doing that you need to
put as much time and attention as
humanly possible on the things you're
grateful for it literally just force
yourself to sit down and think of things
that you're grateful for and even in a
depressive state like it can be the
smallest simplest things let me give you
one running water in your house is
[__]
amazing warm water is in and of itself a
miracle
sanitation like there are just really
simple things you could be over the moon
about the smile of a stranger wind right
like there are so many little things if
you allow yourself to focus on them and
realize they're incredible as Einstein
said you can live as if nothing is a
miracle or if everything is a miracle
and the choice is yours so looking at
the things around you and deciding that
you're going to focus on those things
and think of them as miracles you're
gonna think of them as these incredible
things that you're just grateful to be
experiencing now that's gonna feel
totally fake in the beginning I
understand that but you're gonna force
yourself to keep focusing on that
focusing on it focusing on it and
focusing on it in the framework of this
is amazing now if you do that you're
gonna begin strengthening the gratitude
Network and I know you guys have heard
people talk about gratitude before and
this is why because as you force
yourself through a decision that yes
feels artificial in the beginning you
begin to steep yourself in these
positive emotions a positive frame of
reference and then in that frame of
reference over time becomes real now as
a part of a grand strategy that probably
involves working with a professional
when you have depression this begins to
alleviate some of that also I believe
that a deep sense of fulfillment which
will also compat the press of state has
to do with gaining it's what the ancient
Greeks called techne it's about having a
core set of skills you've worked very
hard to develop that live in service of
other people helping other people makes
people feel rad so man go do something
especially if it's a skill set that
you've worked hard to acquire it will
make you feel very very good about that
so giving back to other people is a huge
way and then there's physical ways to
enter into a much more positive loop so
for instance your posture I know this
sounds stupid but your posture plays
into it
smiling plays into it forcing yourself
to laugh out loud watch comedies watch
stand-up comedy like get yourself in a
position where you're laughing where
you're holding your face in that way
where you're holding your body in an
expansive what they call power posing
like all of this stuff I know it sounds
stupid but it actually works
there are biomechanical feedback loops
that you need to get into so when I'm
feeling down I forced myself to laugh I
put on music that puts me in a great
place
I hug
my wife look I fully get it not
everybody has the luxury of having a
significant other that makes them feel
that way so there's a thousand other
things you could do if you can get a dog
like there's there's a lot of little
things Banzai
when we shave his fur it feels like
velvet and I'm telling you I could sit
there and pet that dog for hours on end
like there are just all these things
that you can do that are pushing you in
a positive direction and they are
choices man they're choices all right
again I'm not an expert on depression
hopefully that logic though sounds very
sound to you and thusly you will give it
a shot because I really do believe it
even though I know I'm not the expert in
the field all right next question is
from Edie Romero this from YouTube Tom
I'm in a job that I hate birra I feel
for you and there's nothing that zaps
happiness faster and the only way for me
to afford getting out of this job is to
do extremely well at it so the question
is how do i generate the psychic energy
necessary to be extremely successful in
something that I have no passion for
this is really fascinating but so I'm
gonna answer your question exactly as
asked but first I'm gonna call [__]
so it actually isn't true that the only
way for you to afford getting out of
that job is to do extremely well at it
so first of all you could cut your
expenses to the absolute quick you could
renegotiate your student loans if you
have like looming student loans you can
even usually student loans will let you
get a deferral for a few months or
whatever so there are things that you
can do like if this is a really toxic
environment I just want you do know that
there are a lot of solutions that may
not seem immediately evident but let's
set that aside and let's say that you
live in some magic land where it really
is the only way for you to get out of
this job is to first do extremely well
at it it's like the most dangerous game
we're trapped on an island with a crazy
millionaire who's hunting you and the
only way he's gonna let you off the
island is if you get really good at
whatever your job is so if that were the
case the psychic energy is all about
having a compelling future like what is
the thing that you want to do so once
you extract yourself from this job then
what do you go on to do so if that thing
that you go on to do really amps you up
and you were super excited about that
thing then that's where this is going to
give you the energy that you want you're
gonna focus on that thing that you're
super amped up about doing and you're
gonna recognize that the skill set that
you need to get good at the job that
you're currently in as part of
that larger goal that you have that
really excites you and then you're gonna
have to be deadly efficient with your
time to make sure that you're doing the
things you need to do to learn and grow
and get out of there as fast as possible
because knowing that it's a short
timeframe is gonna be one of the things
that keeps you motivated I think people
can push really hard for acute periods
of time it gets very very difficult
without that love that passion that huge
why that just burning crushing need that
thing that you love that you're so
excited about if you don't have that I
think you've really got to make the time
period short all right so that's my
advice get after it next question is
from Blaine Goodwin this is Facebook hey
I'm an entrepreneur and I also have
bipolar disorder in the last few months
I started a clothing brand awesome I
really think that I'm on the right track
and I'm seeing good results overall what
encouragement might you have for
entrepreneurs turning obstacles and the
platforms for growth so literally based
on the way you asked a question read the
book the obstacle is the way by Ryan
holiday an amazing amazingly powerful
book it's in my top ten I think I think
it's number six of the most important
books people should read in order if you
want to be successful so that really
talks about what you can do to turn any
obstacle into an opportunity to figure
out what is it about this thing that I
think is holding me back that's actually
going to set me free to do the things
that I need to do so that that book does
an awesome job of encapsulating it but
the idea is that depending on what
you're looking for you're either gonna
see the thing that's stopping you are
you gonna see an opportunity to do
something amazing
so I'll give you an example so Elon Musk
right looks at what's happening with he
thought that electric cars were gonna
happen on their own there was
interesting government regulations that
were happening and he just thought yep
this is all gonna take off and so I
don't have to worry about that and then
he realized that the legislation was
getting pushed back and nobody seemed
incentive vice to do it so he said I'm
gonna do it myself
and so in building Tesla obviously he's
now built a multi-billion dollar company
so he's looking at a problem and
realizes that if he can solve that
problem he can also build a huge
business and this is one of those things
that I keep telling myself I'm gonna
write down like a whole bunch of really
amazing examples of where the obstacle
in my own life actually became the way I
haven't done that yet shame on me deep
and abiding shame and so yeah but that
read the book obstacles away it
elucidates all of this
it's incredibly incredibly powerful in
fact here's a great one for my life so
my anxiety taught me how to meditate and
meditation has helped me be way better
at business so in simply trying to not
be in a constant state of panic I had to
learn how to meditate meditation led me
to think it asian and thinkin tation has
been one of the most incredibly potent
weapons that i have as an entrepreneur
so there's a perfect example the
obstacle the anxiety that I felt was
holding me back because I literally felt
like when I don't have anxiety I feel
like a superhero and when I have it I
feel like literally incapable of
anything so in learning to address that
I realized whoa I overshot normal and I
got this tool that ended up being
incredibly incredibly valuable so there
you have it all right next question is
from the nameless on YouTube that's
literally their name how does one become
a better practitioner of being the
observer of their self as in with the
thoughts and emotions that arise in
certain situations in this case the ones
that cause much angst so this is what I
call the overwatch mechanism and I've
never had to it's not true I've detailed
this before so here's how it goes if you
want to improve your overwatch mechanism
it comes down to self-awareness and the
self awareness of the emotions that are
causing you anxious to maybe 5 or 10
minutes into having an emotion that may
even be causing you to react very
exaggerated Lee you're going to
recognize oh [__] like I'm doing this
thing and it's way over rot so but now
I've caught it and so what you want to
do is back into it so first of all it's
I'm having an emotion and it's causing
this reaction the next step is you want
to get good at identifying what is this
emotion oh this is anger this is
frustration this is jealousy that
whatever then you want to figure out
what's causing this so that's the thing
that you need to go through so I am
having an emotion what the emotion is
and then what's causing the emotion and
then once you get good at that cycle
which will take time but once you get
good at that cycle then you want to get
on the cycle of doing all of it more
rapidly so recognizing that you're
having an emotional reaction in the
first 10 or 15 seconds then identifying
what that emotion is
really rapidly because you've had it so
many times oh yes this is one of those
right this is insecurity this is anger
or whatever and then ah yes here are the
things that really set me off these are
my triggers I know them so that cycle
happens very very rapidly and once
you're at the root cause then you can do
something about it once you know why
you're having an emotion and you're able
to identify it very quickly then you're
gonna be able to get in a positive loop
of being able to catch it very rapidly
and stop it hopefully before or combat
it may be a better way to think of it
than just stopping it cuz you're gonna
go through a process of doing things to
stop you from having that reaction so
what are those things right so if it's
diaphragm breathing if it's anxiety or
something like that if it's laughing out
loud if it's you know sadness what
literally whatever you need to do to
disrupt that pattern so for me actually
wrote myself a note one time a letter
because I knew that once I got angry I
would stay angry for a very long time
and that just seemed like a total waste
of time
so once I felt that coming on and I
thought up here we go I'm gonna be stuck
in this cycle for hours and hours it's
really stupid I had this letter and I
would read the letter to myself and I've
detailed what that letter is many many
times in the show so I'll stop there but
like that's that's the process there you
go
alright next question is from Joss King
hey Tom for someone who doesn't have
much confidence or experience socially
what are some strategies for building
connections and a strong Network appears
often feel guilty that I'm being a
burden to someone if I ask them for
their time okay so first of all read the
book captivate by Vanessa van Edwards
also watch the episode that we did with
her really really incredible amazing
techniques for one like cold opens how
to go to a party how to be captivating
and one of the punchlines is if you want
to be interesting be interested so show
up to a party with a list of say five
questions that you just really find
interesting and you'd want to know with
somebody when you don't have to think
about it it takes some of the anxiety
from that initial situation and now
immediately you're going to jettison
this notion of feeling guilty that
you're asking for somebody's time
because that's not a turn-on
like not even in a social situation I
don't necessarily mean sexual I'm just
saying it's not a turn-on when somebody
comes up to you and they're like oh I'm
so sorry to bug you like that like right
that doesn't engender any
interest to then talk to that person so
what you want to do is simply because
you recognize that it's not an effective
strategy which is something that really
helps me get rid of like embedded
behaviors and myself is to recognize
it's it's just not efficacious right so
efficiency is an obsession of mine
effectiveness is an obsession of mine so
if I know that hey even though I have
this feeling and even though my
inclination is to go apologize that
that's not a very effective cold-open
so I'm gonna jettison that I'm not gonna
think about that so even though I may
feel it I'm not going to feed into it by
obsessing over it or allowing myself to
manifest it okay that's really really
important and then I have my list of
five questions I'm gonna go through and
I'm gonna ask now another thing that I
would do is there so many incredible
like Facebook groups and things where
you can go and be a collector of people
who think like you think so go to groups
is one of the things that I'm most proud
of with impact Theory League is you've
got all these amazing people that really
believe in the mindset that we're
putting out into the world and they're
able to find each other so if you
resonate with this community go to our
impact theory League group on Facebook
that would be a fantastic way to meet
people and I'm sure that there are just
all kinds of other things you could be
doing so online so those are the the
sort of basic things that I would do but
really start with a book captivate I
think it's it's pretty pretty powerful
for how to overcome some of that stuff
alright next question is from Andrew
Baxter armentrout I do believe that
we've had this before I remember that
last name as successful as you are today
what are some things in your life that
you think are holding you back from
becoming more progressive or successful
I inventory my life often and my
priorities and although I may not align
them in the best fashion I feel I can do
10 times better what do you do to keep
yourself on the successful and on a
consistent pattern so there's a few
questions in there so let me answer the
first one what do I think is holding me
back from becoming more progressive I
don't really understand that so I'll
just say from becoming more successful
so one thing that I'm beginning to
realize and you guys have heard me talk
about this in previous videos is I
didn't care about being a manager I
wasn't interested in becoming a better
manager it wasn't something that really
appealed to me
but I had this like niggling doubt in
the back
my mind that that was probably a problem
and that at some point I was gonna have
to address it and whether it was
exciting to me or not to build the kind
of company that I want to build being a
good manager was as important as being a
good leader so that all solidified from
you when I read the book principles by
Ray Dalio which by the way anybody that
wants to stock him socially and tell him
that he should come on impact theory you
have my blessing I really want to get
the guy on the show that book totally
changed my approach to management
totally changed my approach to this
company and by the way just off camera
is an incredible young man named chase
and chase was like Tom you need to read
this [__] book principles and he
wouldn't let up about it and so finally
I was like all right I'm gonna make this
my next book and I read it and it
changed my life in the most profound and
fundamental way that I can possibly
convey it is so transformative if you're
in business I haven't looked at it
through the lens of just general life
but in business it is the single most
important book for me that I've ever
read on business so that's something
that I think has been holding me back is
this sense that I could somehow get away
with just being a leader and just
leading by example and just inspiring
people in the company and that that
would somehow be enough and I think that
that is patently false and now I am
going hard on learning how to build
structures being a better manager being
a very effective business communicator
that's not quite the right word but that
gets you close so yeah so that's
something that I think is holding me
back
the next thing yeah don't scroll off
what do you do to keep yourself on the
successful and consistent pattern
however they understand the question
so I'm gonna answer the question I think
you're trying to ask which is how do I
stay on a path of success and for me the
the huge thing is a hyper specific goal
that is tied to a compelling future that
I believe in very very much so I like
solving business puzzles I hesitated
there because I actually I absolutely
hate like what are those puzzles the the
ones we would like to have a thousand
pieces jigsaw puzzle I don't like jigsaw
puzzles but
and I don't like those little fiddly
like mind puzzles but I love love
business puzzles there's something about
the psychology when it's
direct-to-consumer that I love more than
I know how to convey so like that is
something I get very very excited about
doing and getting skills around that
really really excite me now on top of
that so the notion of techne right so I
like getting good at solving those
business problems and I insist that I
build a business that helps people so I
have a set of skills that I'm really
proud of that really excite me that in
and of themselves that struggle I enjoy
that and then on top of that it serves
other people and that's that's a huge
thing for me so that's how I stay on
that path I'm very very excited about
what I'm building towards I love the
thing that I'm struggling with and it
all serves other people so you put those
together I think that's the magic
triumphant so there you have it all
right next question is from sherry
Linton Messiah there's no other way to
say that right that's just straight
Messiah from Facebook who have you had
the most moving interview dialog with
and why so basically who is my favorite
guest that would be David Goggins so
David Goggins is amazing in every
conceivable way and researching him
changed me at a deep and fundamental
level just like my boy Ray Dalio
like when I was preparing for the
Goggins episode I was like holy [__] I'm
being changed in real time as I prepare
for this episode this is absolute
insanity and then sitting down with him
was everything I ever hoped it would be
it is not surprising to me at all that
that's our number one performing episode
of all time and it's just absolutely a
smash bang winner love that and yeah it
literally has become like a thing in my
life when I'm really fatigued and I
don't think I can do anymore I say
either out loud or in my head
Goggins Goggins and I know that sounds
cheesy but I actually do that just like
that by the way and it kicks me in the
ass and gets me going alright next
question is from Bradley Dean do you
believe you have do you believe you
always have to push so hard and struggle
to succeed what are your thoughts on Law
of Attraction and how much emphasis on
it I think
you put on your attitude in determining
your results okay so half of the law of
attraction is amazing and it's all about
you get what you focus on and the other
half is utter [__] and if you can't
distinguish between the two you are
[__] my friends so it goes like this
thinking about something is not going to
do anything other than reinforce in your
mind that thing so it's putting your
mind on that which is very effective if
you say for instance I'm gonna be
successful I'm gonna succeed awesome
because that's putting you in a positive
place I love that and if you're thinking
you're gonna fail that's putting you in
a negative place is not great so awesome
first step now if you think that merely
thinking about it turns you into some
antenna that is going to receive
something from the universe and they are
gonna drop success in your lap you will
be so depressed at the end of your life
because nothing will happen even if
you're going to play the [__] lottery
you have to go buy a ticket okay you had
to get up you had to choose numbers you
had to buy a [__] ticket so it drives
me nuts when people think that merely
thinking about something is gonna do it
think about eating and see how full you
get okay now thinking about eating is
gonna get you up maybe it takes you to
the grocery store but ultimately you
have to get food masticate it and
swallow that's how it works
so people have got to understand at the
end of the day you've got to take action
you've got to have a very detailed plan
you have to have a massive set of skills
that is going to allow you to execute
and quite frankly out execute other
people who are also trying to do the
thing that you're trying to do so boys
and girls you get what you focus on that
is very true but if you don't act you're
not gonna get anything at all okay there
we go all right question from joyas nice
name should kids be taught to have a
back-up plan for example my 11 year old
dreams of becoming a professional soccer
player should I give him a real stats
and probability [__] that here's what
you want to do everybody lean in close
if you've got a child in your life now
again I don't have kids so I am NOT the
expert follow my logic if my logic is
sound get on it and on this I am
confident my logic is sound what you
need to do is tell your kid
this is what we have to do any dream
that you want you can make come true if
any human being has ever done it that
means it's humanly possible now let's
break down what you're gonna have to do
to actually execute on this because only
execution matters they can't sit there
and dream and if they've got major
handicaps we need to address them if
they want to be a basketball player and
they're 5/3 we got to really talk about
how they're gonna have to overcome
height and so ball handling cord
awareness
those things all of a sudden become what
they have to focus on and we're really
gonna be realistic we're going to face
the hard things we were gonna talk real
truth we are not gonna bamboozle them
but we're gonna put a plan of action in
place to show them how they actually get
where they want to go because there is a
[__] way so we are going to work with
experts we're gonna read books we're
gonna watch YouTube videos we're gonna
do whatever we have to do to get that
plan in place so that they know that
there really is a path to execution
don't [__] them figure out what that
is and that doesn't mean that it's gonna
be easy and being honest about the fact
that something is gonna be hard I think
is a critical step in this but man if
you can teach that child that there is a
path to whatever dream that you want I'm
actually gonna work with you to come up
with that actual path to execution is
and then hold them accountable to doing
it boom man like if nothing else they
may realize that the amount of work that
I would have to do to overcome if I have
a natural limitation that doesn't lend
itself to that thing that I want to do
like being 5/3 and playing in the NBA if
I look at that and say okay this is my
limitation I'm gonna have to overcome
this but you know what the amount of
work that I'm gonna have to do now to
compete with people that are you know
say six ten like I'm not really
interested in doing that it's gonna be
too much effort okay great then you move
on to the next thing but what you showed
them is it's not about having the wrong
dream it's not about you got to face the
facts
timmi and understand that like you've
just got too much working against you
it's like whatever the [__] you want to
do there is a path to execution but we
have to be real about what the hardships
are that you're gonna face based on your
real circumstances but if you're amped
to go through that struggle and get to
the other side [__] yeah you can do it
word if I had a mic which I do I guess
technically but it's attached to a very
large apparatus I would drop it on the
floor all right here we go question is
from Cory G rota what's up by T Tom what
do you
think is the best way to approach a
loved one about their health
specifically weight
they are very self-conscious about it
and already they are very self-conscious
about it already but choose not to
address or acknowledge at work on it and
I say word up so first of all meet
everyone with compassion love and
respect that's it man
don't be in the game of trying to change
people so if somebody is happy with
where they are from a weight perspective
even if that means that they're gonna
live a shorter life and that's something
I very much struggled with it doesn't
matter enjoy the time that you have with
them it's their life they need to make
the decision and it won't help so going
back to my obsession with efficiency
something actually working or not it
actually doesn't work to do this assault
to try to get them to think about it
even though it comes from a place of
love and yes even though it means that
you're gonna lose them earlier than you
want to it just doesn't work and it's
gonna stress the [__] out of your
relationship they're gonna feel judged
they're not gonna feel loved they need
to know that you love them no matter
what and if you show them that even if
they never make that change your
relationship is gonna be rad they're
gonna feel better about themselves and
it will just be all-around way way way
better and so I would rather have
somebody for a shorter period of time
but have an amazing relationship while I
have them then try to like get them to
change so I'm not in the game of
changing people's minds I'm in the game
of preaching to the choir which i think
is far more effective and actually
spreads better that way as you get that
message out to more people that want to
make the change then it's there so if
somebody came to me and said what do I
need to do to make this change you know
I'm ready now or whatever I would give
them that information freely and I would
be super stoked for them but then if
they fell off and they didn't do it
that's fine man that is their journey so
yeah meet people with compassion that
that is for your own sake by the way I
think that's the right answer all right
next question is from Khalif Williams
hey Tom how do you deal with being an
outlier or social deviant it's often
that I feel that it's often that I feel
that morally I don't match some others
who have no problem stepping on others
I'm told that I'm weak for not changing
my heart and I should just be as cold
wow man
so we got to talk about the people that
you're hanging out with if somebody can
actually utter the words that you need
to be more cold
look I get it I understand where that's
coming from they're probably not trying
to be a jerk and they're not a sociopath
but look at the end of the day it just
isn't true and from a business
perspective especially now today with
social media actually wanting good
things for people and building a
community by showing that you're willing
to go to the ends of the earth to do
something rad for them and making a
product that actually resonates and
solves a problem like it's awesome and
so you live in a time where you can
prove them wrong it's all about
delivering value at the end of the day
that is the only thing that is
monetizable over time delivering value
period simple as so focus on that and
here's the thing what they might be
pointing out they may have the wrong
answer which is that your heart isn't
cold enough you're not willing to step
on people which sounds like an
absolutely horrific strategy and
remember this is what everyone is
thinking if even if they don't have the
words for it if you'll do it for them
you'll do it to them so if you'll step
on somebody's neck to get ahead and they
see that it benefits them in the short
term in the long run they're thinking
damn like that person is willing to step
on people to get somewhere and so
they're gonna be very uneasy about you
so I think it's while it can win in the
short term I think it's a terrible long
term strategy and while I'm in the place
of recommending books today read barking
up the wrong tree by Erik Barker and he
talks about how and I forget who did the
initial research forgive me because it
wasn't him but he's citing it we're
jerks finish first and last so there are
some short-term benefits to being a jerk
there is absolutely no question about
that but then there are massive
long-term consequences so you've really
got to be careful if you look at just
the people that have gotten ahead with
that and not realized sorta where that
stalls out and then becomes a problem
what I call the dragon eating its own
tail then yeah you're gonna choose a
strategy that's much more effective in
the short term so be very very careful
about that
so yeah you live in a world where social
media is going to allow you to build a
really big business by really taking
care of people by generating value by
taking care of them and what I was going
to say is while they they're wrong about
the fact that you need to step on people
they may be right and identifying that
your strategy has a problem meaning you
have to judge yourself by results so if
you're being a nice guy but you're not
getting ahead then you need to assess
what you're doing wrong where you're not
delivering enough value so I'm just
having the intention of being nice
is not the same as building a big
business so keep that in mind all right
next question is from Joe Rivera how do
you use your ego in your favor
all right that's very easy so one we
need to be very careful about how we
define words so if ego is synonymous
with like arrogance even that I think
there's there's a positive connotation
to be had for arrogance but let's take
the negative side of ego and arrogance
where you're projecting something that
turns other people off first of all so
it's not just an internal thing to give
yourself the confidence to move forward
which is how I use the word so I tell
people I have the arrogance of belief
I'm arrogant enough to believe that I
can learn anything so I don't believe
that I'm necessarily great at you know
whatever it is and I'm going to need to
be great at to do something but I really
do have the arrogance to believe that I
can get good at that and that's been
very very powerful in my life and I use
the word arrogance there because it's
something that's born out of no like I
have no concrete experience in that
thing and I still have the arrogance to
believe that I can do it but that comes
from the confidence which I've proven to
myself over time that I'm very competent
at learning so confidence comes from
competence so that's it feeds into
itself where even though I have no
experience in that arena and so I'll
call it arrogance because of that it's
really arrogance fed by confidence that
comes from competence of being a good
learner over time in other areas so
that's the thing so and that's where ego
really plays so I've chosen to build my
ego my self-esteem around being the
learner so instead of being right or
being smart which then makes you seem
like a jerk for having the ego about
that my ego forces me to be humble
because I actually have an ego around a
willingness to be humble to feed my
humility to focus on the things that I
did wrong to recognize that if I really
lower my defenses or my need to be right
or my need to seem smart or I stopped
worrying about looking stupid or I faced
embarrassment head-on like all of those
things those are the things that create
my pride my ego my self-esteem all of it
so that what you build your self-esteem
around in your ego that matters and if
you've chosen poorly and it's something
that is built around being you know a
stud or smart or whatever like it's it's
a death trap
but if you build that stuff around
being willing to admit that you're wrong
sitting at somebody's feet and being
willing to learn acknowledging that
everyone is your superior in some way
and that you have something to learn
from them then it really becomes
powerful alright next question is from
Josh Blount its podcasting a saturated
market or is there still room for those
who are willing to execute with hard
work passion intellectual curiosity and
overall an obsession to make a positive
impact on others
all right Josh here we go man I love
this question so much because it gives
me a chance to tell a story and that
story goes like this three years ago I
decided that I was gonna start doing a
video show that ended up being impact
theory and at the time I was told by
somebody most of you know because he's
very famous in this world that it was a
fool's errand that it was a very
saturated market and that I was never
going to be able to build the thing that
I wanted to build and he wasn't trying
to be mean he wasn't trying to be
discouraging he was just trying to be
honest and that basically the time this
was three years ago
the time had passed and that the people
that had gotten a foothold they just got
started early and so there was just no
way for me to pull that off and here we
are one of the most rapidly growing
YouTube channels in our space so and
I've gone from absolutely nothing to now
our ecosystem has about six hundred
thousand people in it in a year so it's
what we did in 2017 from a community
standpoint and when I say we I mean the
team here and I mean you guys for
helping spread the word and get this out
there it's been insanity it's been pure
insanity and to start from flat-footed
with zero subscribers on January 4th 0
and 2 now on YouTube alone be pressing
up against 200,000 a year later dude you
can do this man you can't if you're
focused on adding value if you actually
have a talent in it if you're able to
outperform other people I don't care if
you're starting 10 years from now
assuming that it's all still around
delivering value delivering more value
than other people is what it's about and
so to give you a sense of the chip that
I keep on my shoulder a that person is
on my list of people to prove wrong and
then be it was being told that I
couldn't do something I knew
that I had to double down and get really
[__] good and I knew that I couldn't
step up to the plate and be okay I had
to step up and crush it and be better
than anybody else and every time that I
look at a piece of our content that
doesn't work I think it's because I'm
not better at that thing then the other
people I'm going up against that's just
the truth and so you've got to be
willing to get better than other people
if you're willing to get better and
deliver more value and you stick at it
and don't stop and just put an inhuman
amount of work behind it you will be
successful all right and by the way we
were told the same thing at Qwest when
we launched we actually had a guy tell
us I need another protein bar like I
needed another hole in the head and five
years later we were a billion dollar
business so it's becoming a theme in my
life all right James McGough YouTube hey
Tom you're working right now but there's
also a lot of work going on behind the
scenes what's your favorite part of what
you do the external creative stuff or
the business side that's really tough I
love love love the creative side but I
don't want to be myopically in it so I
used to want to be a director I don't
want to be a director anymore because
all of your focus and time and attention
goes into that one project and I like
being at a much higher level so I like
solving business problems and I think
that if you force me to give an answer I
would I would say business but I love
love love that my business is now
creative so that was something obviously
done very much on purpose but that at
the end of the day my greatest joy is
solving direct-to-consumer business
problems I don't enjoy b2b that that's
obnoxious in my opinion but
direct-to-consumer like really coming to
understand you really finding way to
deliver value that it is a puzzle that I
enjoy solving tremendously and feeling
like I'm doing something that improves
people's lives is is one of my greatest
joys so but ultimately yeah I think the
the business side of the equation it has
just become so in love with it so yeah
all right next question is from Orlando
Ramos Facebook do you ever think of what
the world will look like once your life
mission has pulled billions from the
matrix what humanity will look and be
like does that future excite you
absolutely I think about that
obsessively
and as I told the team here I
the idea of making movies and TV shows
and comic books like all of that is
beyond exciting to me and by the way I
think we're gonna lean even harder into
social content and really thinking of
ourselves as a network if you will like
a more hey I got a something using the
word traditional because it's gonna be
very a traditional but in the sense of
were a production house that makes a
whole bunch of content that's around a
theme but ultimately is very divergent
so think of NBC or ABC or anything like
that so I think we're gonna be leaning
harder into that but I actually don't
have enough passion and enthusiasm for
the art of creating that stuff to risk
my fortune to spend my time doing that
but I do for the thought of pulling
people out of the matrix and seeing what
happens when you can find people that
are willing to execute at a really high
level that really believe in themselves
that are willing to go acquire the
skills that have a growth mindset even
if they just want to be like the
greatest parent of all time like that to
me is is the juice and I do think about
what that world looks like and I think
that it's if you've ever read Michio
Kaku z-- the future of physics future
physics something like that future and
physics are both in the title he talks
about civilizations and how they're
basically ranked and uh I forget if he
calls them stage stage one stage two but
it's like as you move higher up you
start creating very powerful things that
can either destroy or they can move you
forward and so I hope that I can play
some role in ushering in a bright and
beautiful future so meaning that we
don't destroy ourselves and we don't
keep being divisive and that people are
focused on growing and getting better
and that is a world that I very much
want to see and help bring in so yeah I
think about that a lot and that that
really is my ultimate driver which is
why I obsess about doing it on set scale
so one offs to me just aren't that
interesting all right victorious speed
I've been struggling to make progress in
my new business I feel like what I need
is a strong team but I live in a new
city where I don't know anyone and don't
have a lot of extra money where should I
start building the team okay so lean in
those are excuses and I say that only to
just get past that fast so that we can
get to what you actually need to do so
remember excuse
is are horrifying because they're so
valid so yes being in a new city and not
knowing people that is brutal and it's
gonna make it harder but it is
ultimately just an excuse so what you
need to do is make sure that you have a
compelling value proposition to both the
consumer and to the team right so what
are you offering the world that's going
to excite people to be on your team and
what about being on your team is amazing
enough to get people going so making
everyone an owner in this company I
think is a huge value proposition which
we have done so every full-time employee
at impact Theory has ownership in the
company to me like that I just couldn't
work anywhere that I didn't have
ownership we also do profit sharing
so which since we don't plan to sell the
company that's important to me and I
would think important to the people that
are working here also I'm obsessed with
making this an awesome place to work
since the grind is a guarantee but our
ultimate success is not so hopefully
everybody enjoys the day to day which is
why we're doing principles and really
building out the the culture of this
community in a way that empowers people
as individuals I think that that's
really really important so if you have a
vision you have a compelling future that
people can be a part of and you know how
to explain and paint that vision and
you're inviting people in to succeed as
you succeed then I think no matter where
you could drop me in Namibia and I'd be
able to get people excited about
something because we're doing something
that really adds value to people's lives
and I'm trying to do it in a way that
makes actually being at the company
itself a powerful experience so that's
it that's what you got to do alright we
have sort of time for one more so here
we go last one this is from Jeremy
Schmidt how do you pick yourself up
after a hard hitting failure and Tom
this might be personal but what keeps
you so inspired okay so I'll answer the
easy one first so what do I do that
keeps me inspired it's a compelling
future so there's that thing in fact the
person is just asking like do I think
about what the world looks like if I'm
able to actually accomplish my mission
and begin pulling people out of the
matrix at scale and again the matrix is
just a metaphor I don't actually care
whether we're in a simulation or not I
just mean the matrix is is the metaphor
that I use for a limiting belief system
so getting people to get rid of their
limiting belief system and believe that
they can do the extraordinary and then
execute against it which is really
something that I hold myself accountable
for do people actually execute or did
they just get inspired and this becomes
how can I forget that in the spiritual
entertainment or something which I'm not
interested in that so I actually want
people to go take action so that future
is very very very compelling to me and
very exciting to me and I want to be a
part of that that makes me feel very
good about myself because it's a set of
skills that I've acquired that have
utility and serve other people which is
the like core thing to fulfilment and
then part of what people read as
inspired is just energy I have a lot of
energy and so that energy comes from I
prioritize sleep I eat well all the time
and I exercise you do those three things
man you will be shocked at being able to
build through choices inspiration into
your life but because I have the energy
to back it up I have the energy to
execute against it it seems like it's
just inspiration but the reality is man
I think mindset this is a dirty secret
mindset is positioned for there are
three things that you should be doing
the three things that I just listed that
really feed into it so you need to have
a compelling future you need to have you
need to eat right you need to exercise
like you just got to do those things
then we get to like the mindset and all
the tools and tactics and things that I
break down all right guys that's it
thank you so much for joining me and is
this the last one before Christmas I
think it is all right guys Happy
Holidays whatever it is you celebrate
man happy holidays I'm such a psycho for
the holiday season because it is a
reminder that you get we focus on its
focus on joy beauty gratitude all of
that and it will be there for you thank
you guys so much for joining me if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
to Cindy since I didn't I G story this I
apologize and I'll put it in the
errorlog alright guys thank you so much
for joining me and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Applause]
you